[DOCS] Whats new in 7.16 (#1298)
elastic/security-docs: docs/whats-new.asciidoc

[[whats-new]]
[chapter]
= What's new in 7.16

Here are the highlights of what’s new and improved in {elastic-sec}!

For detailed information about this release, see the <<release-notes, Release notes>>.

Other versions: {security-guide-all}/7.15/whats-new.html[7.15] | {security-guide-all}/7.14/whats-new.html[7.14] | {security-guide-all}/7.13/whats-new.html[7.13] | {security-guide-all}/7.12/whats-new.html[7.12] | {security-guide-all}/7.11/whats-new.html[7.11] | {security-guide-all}/7.10/whats-new.html[7.10] |
{security-guide-all}/7.9/whats-new.html[7.9]

[discrete]
[[sec-features-7.16]]
=== New features

*Memory threat protection added for Linux and macOS hosts*

<<memory-protection, Memory threat protection>>, which detects and stops many of the techniques used for process injection, is now added to Linux and macOS hosts. It ships with preventions for shellcode (macOS and Linux), reflective ELF injection (Linux), and in-memory Mach-O execution (macOS), plus the preventions for Windows systems that were introduced in {stack} version 7.15. Memory threat protection is available for customers with a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or Enterprise license].

> *Expanded malicious behavior protections*

Reviewer: maybe just "protection" instead of "protectionS", for consistency with the previous heading

<<behavior-protection, Malicious behavior protection>> has been expanded to stop an advanced set of attack techniques. All analytics are mapped to the MITRE ATT&CK® framework and address methods related to initial access, privilege escalation, and defense evasion, including:

* Phishing with a spearphishing attachment, where an attacker drops an initial payload via a malicious document or shortcut

> * Signed binary proxy execution, a comprise of commonly abused living off the land (LotL) binaries and scripts

Reviewer: Something's not quite right with "a comprise of commonly abused..."
```suggestion
* Signed binary proxy execution, comprised of commonly abused living off the land (LotL) binaries and scripts
```

> * Phishing with a spearphishing attachment, where an attacker drops an initial payload via a malicious document or shortcut
> * Signed binary proxy execution, a comprise of commonly abused living off the land (LotL) binaries and scripts
> * Privilege escalation via UAC bypass, which allows adversaries to bypass Windows User Account Control to elevate privileges

Reviewer 2: My preference is to include punctuation for lists, especially with long active verb clauses, but I couldn't find any Elastic editorial guidelines. Feel free to ignore if it doesn't match our style.
```suggestion
* Phishing with a spearphishing attachment, where an attacker drops an initial payload via a malicious document or shortcut.
* Signed binary proxy execution, a comprise of commonly abused living off the land (LotL) binaries and scripts.
* Privilege escalation via UAC bypass, which allows adversaries to bypass Windows User Account Control to elevate privileges.
```

These new capabilities leverage the malicious behavior preventions introduced in {stack} version 7.15 to stop various techniques for phishing, credential theft, living off the land (LotL), and achieving advanced persistence.

*New integrations*

{elastic-sec} ships the following new https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations[integrations] in 7.16:

* AWS WAF
* Cisco Duo
* GitHub
* 1Password

*ECS support for Osquery Manager integration*

Host inspection is streamlined via the Osquery Manager integration for {agent}. Users can now {kibana-ref}/osquery.html#osquery-map-fields[map saved query results] directly to ECS to return normalized data.

*Trusted applications enhancements*

> You can now configure <<trusted-apps-ov, trusted applications>> per policy instead of universally, allowing you to configure hosts that may require unique settings. This feature requires a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or Enterprise license]. In addition, when configuring trusted applications, you can use the `matches` operator to include wildcards in file paths.

Reviewer 2: The UI uses "globally". Also "instead of" sounds like an either/or change, but it's more like an additional option.
```suggestion
You can now configure <<trusted-apps-ov, trusted applications>> per policy as well as globally, allowing you to configure hosts that may require unique settings. This feature requires a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or Enterprise license]. In addition, when configuring trusted applications, you can use the `matches` operator to include wildcards in file paths.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/trusted-app.png[]

> *Add host isolation exceptions*

Reviewer: To be more in line with the other feature headings we could remove the verb:
```suggestion
*Host isolation exceptions*
```

You can add <<host-isolation-exceptions, host isolation exceptions>> for specific IP addresses that isolated hosts are still allowed to communicate with, even when blocked from the rest of your network.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/host-isolation-exception.png[]

*Detection rule enhancements*

* When <<import-export-rules-ui, exporting or importing>> detection rules, actions are now included.
* The default query for <<create-indicator-rule, indicator match rules>> has been updated to check the indicator index patterns for matched indicators that have occurred within the past 30 days.

*Easily view events that can be analyzed in the Alerts table*

Alerts that can be opened in the visual event analyzer are denoted by the Analyze event button.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/analyze-event.png[]

This option now appears as a visible inline action, whereas before it was only accessible via the overflow menu.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/alerts-page.gif[]

*New ServiceNow integrations*

> This release delivers https://store.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/integrations[certified applications] for ServiceNow Security Operations (SecOps), ServiceNow IT Service Management (ITSM), plus a new connector for ServiceNow IT Operations Management (ITOM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release delivers https://store.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/integrations[certified applications] for ServiceNow Security Operations (SecOps) and ServiceNow IT Service Management (ITSM), plus a new connector for ServiceNow IT Operations Management (ITOM).
``` 
Since the "plus" distinguishes the third item from the first two items, the first two items come across as a list of their own (of certified integrations)

> * Elastic + ServiceNow SecOps maximizes practitioner efficiency with security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR)
> * Elastic + ServiceNow ITSM coordinates the workload and processes of modern IT teams
> * Elastic + ServiceNow ITOM maximizes uptime by powering proactive IT operations with machine learning

Reviewer 2: I'd definitely prefer punctuation in this list, where the items are complete sentences.
```suggestion
* Elastic + ServiceNow SecOps maximizes practitioner efficiency with security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR).
* Elastic + ServiceNow ITSM coordinates the workload and processes of modern IT teams.
* Elastic + ServiceNow ITOM maximizes uptime by powering proactive IT operations with machine learning.
```

*Exporting and importing cases as saved objects*

> You can now <<cases-export, export>> and <<cases-import, import>> cases as saved objects through the Kibana {kibana-ref}/managing-saved-objects.html[Saved Objects] UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now <<cases-export, export>> and <<cases-import, import>> cases as saved objects via the Kibana {kibana-ref}/managing-saved-objects.html[Saved Objects] UI.
```

[[whats-new]]
[chapter]
= What's new in 7.16

Here are the highlights of what’s new and improved in {elastic-sec}!

For detailed information about this release, see the <<release-notes, Release notes>>.

Other versions: {security-guide-all}/7.15/whats-new.html[7.15] | {security-guide-all}/7.14/whats-new.html[7.14] | {security-guide-all}/7.13/whats-new.html[7.13] | {security-guide-all}/7.12/whats-new.html[7.12] | {security-guide-all}/7.11/whats-new.html[7.11] | {security-guide-all}/7.10/whats-new.html[7.10] |
{security-guide-all}/7.9/whats-new.html[7.9]

[discrete]
[[sec-features-7.16]]
=== New features

*Memory threat protection added for Linux and macOS hosts*

> <<memory-protection, Memory threat protection>>, which detects and stops many of the techniques used for process injection, is now added to Linux and macOS hosts. It ships with preventions for shellcode (macOS and Linux), reflective ELF injection (Linux), and in-memory Mach-O execution (macOS), plus the preventions for Windows systems that were introduced in {stack} version 7.15. Memory threat protection is available for customers with a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or Enterprise license].

Reviewer 3: Should 7.15 be 7.15.0 in this sentence?

Author: Looking at Kibana docs and it looks like they use whole integers for their what's new.

*Expanded malicious behavior protection*

<<behavior-protection, Malicious behavior protection>> has been expanded to stop an advanced set of attack techniques. All analytics are mapped to the MITRE ATT&CK® framework and address methods related to initial access, privilege escalation, and defense evasion, including:

* Phishing with a spearphishing attachment, where an attacker drops an initial payload via a malicious document or shortcut
* Signed binary proxy execution, comprised of commonly abused living off the land (LotL) binaries and scripts
* Privilege escalation via UAC bypass, which allows adversaries to bypass Windows User Account Control to elevate privileges

> These new capabilities leverage the malicious behavior preventions introduced in {stack} version 7.15 to stop various techniques for phishing, credential theft, living off the land (LotL), and achieving advanced persistence.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These new capabilities leverage the malicious behavior preventions introduced in {stack} version 7.15.0 to stop various techniques for phishing, credential theft, LotL, and achieving advanced persistence.
```

*New integrations*

> {elastic-sec} ships the following new https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations[integrations] in 7.16:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{elastic-sec} ships the following new https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations[integrations] in 7.16.0:
```

You can now configure <<trusted-apps-ov, trusted applications>> per policy as well as globally, allowing you to configure hosts that may require unique settings. This feature requires a https://www.elastic.co/pricing[Platinum or Enterprise license]. In addition, when configuring trusted applications, you can use the `matches` operator to include wildcards in file paths.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/trusted-app.png[]

*Host isolation exceptions*

You can add <<host-isolation-exceptions, host isolation exceptions>> for specific IP addresses that isolated hosts are still allowed to communicate with, even when blocked from the rest of your network.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/host-isolation-exception.png[]

*Detection rule enhancements*

* When <<import-export-rules-ui, exporting or importing>> detection rules, actions are now included.
* The default query for <<create-indicator-rule, indicator match rules>> has been updated to check the indicator index patterns for matched indicators that have occurred within the past 30 days.
* 38 new <<prebuilt-rules, prebuilt rules>>.

*Easily view events that can be analyzed in the Alerts table*

> Alerts that can be opened in the visual event analyzer are denoted by the Analyze event button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alerts that can be opened in the visual event analyzer are denoted by the **Analyze event** button.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/analyze-event.png[]

> This option now appears as a visible inline action, whereas previously it was only accessible via the overflow menu.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This option now appears as a visible inline action, whereas previously it was only accessible from the overflow menu.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/alerts-page.gif[]

*New ServiceNow integrations*

This release delivers https://store.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/integrations[certified applications] for ServiceNow Security Operations (SecOps) and ServiceNow IT Service Management (ITSM), plus a new connector for ServiceNow IT Operations Management (ITOM).

* Elastic + ServiceNow SecOps maximizes practitioner efficiency with security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR).
* Elastic + ServiceNow ITSM coordinates the workload and processes of modern IT teams.
* Elastic + ServiceNow ITOM maximizes uptime by powering proactive IT operations with machine learning.

*Exporting and importing cases as saved objects*

> You can now <<cases-export, export>> and <<cases-import, import>> cases as saved objects via the Kibana {kibana-ref}/managing-saved-objects.html[Saved Objects] UI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can now <<cases-export, export>> and <<cases-import, import>> cases as saved objects using the Kibana {kibana-ref}/managing-saved-objects.html[Saved Objects] UI.
```
